# A Simple Java Program
```Java
public class Main
{
	public static void main(String[] args)
	{
		System.out.println('Hello world'); // System.out is an object
	}
}
```
- The keyword `public` is an access specifier which controls the level of access other parts of a program have to this code.
- The Key word `class` reminds you that everything in Java program must be inside a class.
- The rules for class names:
	- Names must begin with an uppercase letter and after that, they can have any combination of letters and digits.
	- The length is unlimited.
	- You can't use Java keywords for a class name.
- Make the file name same as the name of the public class.
- JVM always starts execution with the code in the `main` method, which must always be a `public` method.
- If `main` method exits normally , the java program has the exit code 0, to terminate the program use `System.exit` method. 
# Comments
- You can use `//` or `/* */` or `/** */` for writing a comment.
- `/* */` comments do not nest in java.

# Data Types
- Java is a strongly typed language, this means every variable must have a declared type.
- There are 8 primitive types in java :
	1. byte
	2. short
	3. int
	4. long
	5. float
	6. double
	7. boolean
	8. char
#### Integer types
| Type  | Size    |
| ----- | ------- |
| int   | 4 bytes |
| short | 2 bytes |
| byte  | 1 byte  |
| long  | 8 bytes        |

- Long integer numbers have a suffix L or l (for example, 4000000000L).
- Hexadecimal numbers have a prefix 0x or 0X (for example, 0xCAFE).
- Octal numbers have a prefix 0 (for example, 010 is 8).
- you can write numbers in binary, with a prefix 0b or 0B. For example, 0b1001 is 9.
- you can add underscores to number literals, such as 1_000_000.
- Note that Java does not have any unsigned versions of the int, long, short,or byte types.
	- If you work with integer values that can never be negative and you really need an additional bit, you can, with some care, interpret signed integer values as unsigned. For example, instead of having a byte value b represent the range from –128 to 127, you may want a range from 0 to 255. You can store it in a byte. Due to the nature of binary arithmetic, addition, subtraction, and multiplication will work provided they don’t overflow. For other operations, call `Byte.toUnsignedInt(b)` to get an int value between 0 and 255, then process the integer value and cast back to byte. The Integer and Long classes have methods for unsigned division and remainder.
#### Floating-point Types
| Type   | Size    |
| ------ | ------- |
| float  | 4 bytes |
| double | 8 bytes        |


- Numbers of type float have a suffix F or f (for example, 3.14F).
- Floating-point numbers without an F suffix (such as 3.14) are always of type double. You can optionally supply the D or d suffix (for example, 3.14D).
- In hexadecimal notation, you use a p, not an e, to denote the exponent. (An e is a hexadecimal digit.)
- There are three special floating-point values to denote overflows and errors:
	- +ve infinity
	- -ve infinity
	- Nan
- For example, the result of dividing a positive number by 0 is positive infinity. Computing 0/0 or the square root of a negative number yields NaN.
##### Note:
The constants `Double.POSITIVE_INFINITY`, `Double.NEGATIVE_INFINITY`, and `Double.NaN` (as well as corresponding Float constants) represent these special values, but they are rarely used in practice. In particular, you cannot test:
```Java
if (x == Double.NaN) //is never true
```
to check whether a particular result equals `Double.NaN`. All “not a number” values are considered distinct. However, you can use the` Double.isNaN` method:
```Java
if (Double.isNaN(x)) // check whether x is "not a number"
```
